WI #634: Commitment Discount Flexibility Appendix (#535)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/appendix/examples/commitment_discount_flexibility_examples/one_hundred_percent_utilization_with_commitment_discount_flexibility_with_1_resource.md

# 100% utilization with with commitment discount flexibility with 1 resource

## Context

For this example, fictitious provider, *TinyCloud*, offers the following SKU catalog which is used in the scenario below.

### SKU Catalog

> | Service | Sku ID    | Sku Price ID                            | Sku Price Unit Price | Normalization Factor |

Reviewer: Capitalization needs standardization.  If Sku, then Id.  If ID, then SKU.

| Compute | VM_LARGE  | VM_LARGE_COMMITTED_PURCHASE_NO_UPFRONT  | $1.50                | 3                    |
| Compute | VM_XLARGE | VM_XLARGE_COMMITTED_PURCHASE_NO_UPFRONT | $2.00                | 4                    |
| Compute | VM_SMALL  | VM_SMALL_COMMITTED_HOUR                 | $0.50                | 1                    |
| Compute | VM_MEDIUM | VM_MEDIUM_COMMITTED_HOUR                | $1.00                | 2                    |
| Compute | VM_LARGE  | VM_LARGE_COMMITTED_HOUR                 | $1.50                | 3                    |
| Compute | VM_XLARGE | VM_XLARGE_COMMITTED_HOUR                | $2.00                | 4                    |
| Compute | VM_SMALL  | VM_SMALL_ON_DEMAND_HOUR                 | $1.00                | 1                    |
| Compute | VM_MEDIUM | VM_MEDIUM_ON_DEMAND_HOUR                | $2.00                | 2                    |
| Compute | VM_LARGE  | VM_LARGE_ON_DEMAND_HOUR                 | $3.00                | 3                    |
| Compute | VM_XLARGE | VM_XLARGE_ON_DEMAND_HOUR                | $4.00                | 4                    |

> The above SKU pricing attributes show that this provider only has 1 service that offers 4 virtual machine SKUs at various list rates, *commitment discount* rates, and normalization factors. Each SKU's normalization factor classifies its relative size to its *commitment discount* rate. Usage-based [*commitment discounts*](#glossary:commitmentdiscount) with [*commitment discount flexibility*](#commitmentdiscountflexibility) can fully cover any combination of 1 or more SKUs where the sum of their normalization factor is less than or equal to the normalization factor of the *commitment discount*.

Reviewer: Per discussion in TF1 Mar 25:

```suggestion
The above SKU catalog show that this provider only has 1 service that offers 4 virtual machine SKUs at various list rates, *commitment discount* rates, and normalization factors. Each SKU's normalization factor classifies its relative size to its *commitment discount* rate. Usage-based [*commitment discounts*](#glossary:commitmentdiscount) with [*commitment discount flexibility*](#commitmentdiscountflexibility) can fully cover any combination of 1 or more SKUs where the sum of their normalization factor is less than or equal to the normalization factor of the *commitment discount*.
```

        "ListCost": 1.00,
        "x_CommitmentDiscountUnitPrice": 0.50,
        "BilledCost": 0.50,
        "EffectiveCost": 0.00,
        "ConsumedQuantity": null,
        "ConsumedUnit": null,
        "SkuId": "VM_SMALL",
        "SkuPriceId": "VM_SMALL_COMMITTED_PURCHASE_NO_UPFRONT",
        "CommitmentDiscountId": "<commitment-discount-id>",
        "CommitmentDiscountCategory": "Usage",
        "CommitmentDiscountQuantity": 1.00,
        "CommitmentDiscountStatus": null,
        "CommitmentDiscountUnit": "Normalized Hour"
    },
    {
        "BillingPeriodStart": "2023-01-01T00:00:00Z",
        "BillingPeriodEnd": "2023-02-01T00:00:00Z",
        "ChargePeriodStart": "2023-01-01T00:00:00Z",
        "ChargePeriodEnd": "2023-01-01T01:00:00Z",
        "ChargeCategory": "Usage",
        "ChargeFrequency": "Usage-Based",
        "PricingCategory": "Committed",
        "ResourceId": "<my-large-vm-id>",
        "PricingQuantity": 0.333,
        "ListUnitPrice": 3.00,
        "ListCost": 3.00,
        "x_CommitmentDiscountUnitPrice": 1.50,
        "BilledCost": 0.00,
        "EffectiveCost": 0.50,
        "ConsumedQuantity": 1.00,
        "ConsumedUnit": "Hour",

>         "SkuId": "VM_LARGE",
>         "SkuId": "VM_LARGE_COMMITTED_HOUR",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "SkuId": "VM_LARGE",
        "SkuPriceId": "VM_LARGE_COMMITTED_HOUR",
```
